# Abstract
Genotype can significantly influence gut microbiome composition. Genes that regulate immune responses, intestinal barrier function, and metabolic processes shape the environment in the gut, determining which microbial species thrive. Less than 20% of Parkinson’s disease (PD) can be attributed to monogenic causes and multiple environmental risks have been implicated, thus gene-environment interactions may play a role in most PD cases. The microbiome is altered in PD patients compared to controls, leading us to propose that a-synuclein (aSyn) overexpression may be one PD-related factor that influences gut microbial community profiles. Interestingly, studies in several mouse models of PD have shown that depleting gut bacteria alleviates aSyn pathology, reduces neuroinflammation, and prevents motor and gut symptoms. Accordingly, we aim to investigate the role of the microbiome in motor behavior and gastrointestinal (GI) function in a mouse model of α-synuclein overexpression (Thy1-ASO). Microbiome profiling from fecal samples of 2-month and 5-month-old mice revealed that Thy1-ASO mice exhibit different microbial community structures and representation/abundance of microbial taxa compared to their wild-type counterparts. Interestingly, both age groups display α-synuclein aggregates in the stomach and brain as early as 2 months old, but GI and motor impairments were only observed in 5-month-old ASO mice. To restore microbiome composition, we performed fecal microbiota transplants (FMT) from 2-month-old healthy WT donors into 5-month-old ASO mice, which not only improved PD-related GI and motor symptoms but also reduced αSyn aggregates in the brain. Recipient mice have proteomic profile of the substantia nigra suggesting that FMT activates autophagy as a mechanism to clear αSyn aggregates, a hypothesis being currently tested. In addition, pre-treatment of donors with vancomycin completely abolished the beneficial effects of FMT. This study reveals that αSyn overexpression reshapes the gut microbiome to adopt pathogenic properties, and suggests that microbiome restoration could be a promising therapeutic approach for some forms of PD. This project is divided into 4 main parts that will require metagenomics analysis.

# Part 1 - Distinct microbiome profile between WT and Thy1-ASO animals

16S-based microbiome profiling from fecal samples of 2-month and 5-month-old mice revealed that Thy1-ASO mice exhibit different microbial community structures and representation/abundance of microbial taxa compared to their wild-type counterparts. Samples were collected from 2, 5-12-month-old WT and 2, 5-month-old ASO littermates that were separated by genotype during genotyping (3 weeks of age). Each age correspond to a different group of animals but time points 2 and 5 were litermates.

As can be seen in the PCA plot above, microbiome from ASO at 2 and 5 months are very different from WT microbiomes at 2, 5 and 12 months of age. Interestingly, microbiome from 5-month-old ASO animals resembles a lot with the microbiome from 12-month-old WT animals. The first set of analysis is aimed to dive deep into those differences.

# Part 2 - When do the microbiome from WT and ASO animals diverge and what are the main distinct signatures?

Following the PART 1 above, we would like to know when the microbiome from WT and ASO animals diverge after been separated by cages. For this, we collected samples from WT and ASO animals from 4 different breeders so we can have a reasonable number of representants per genotype. Each genotype was identified by the breeder it came from and cage. We have representants from 4 different cages (2 WT and 2ASO). Samples were collected throughout 2 months (all date collections are in the metadata). We identified each collection point by a number from 1 to 13. For example, 2.4(12)= it means the sample came from cage 2 (breeder 2), animal 4, time point 12. We have also collected samples from breeders, weaning day and at the day of separation.

# Part 3 - Changes in the ASO microbiome after FMT

In this part, we treated 5-month-old ASO animals (time point where symptoms were identified) with 2-month-old WT fecal pellets by gavage. For all FMT experiments (part 3 and 4), ASO animals were treated with antibiotics for 2 weeks (a cocktail of vancomycin, erythromycin, gentamycin/neomycin and ampicillin) before the transplant. Experimental design is below and a 16S-based PCA plot. We have samples from ASOaFMT, animals who received 5mo-old ASO microbiome back and ASOyFMT (animals who received 2mo-old WT microbiome). The donors were animals from which samples were collected in the PART 1 above (5-month-old ASO and 2-month-old WT).

# Part 4 - Which fraction of 2mo-old microbiome is responsible for improving the symptoms of 5-month-old ASO animals after FMT?

In this part, we treated 4 groups of 2-month-old WT animals with a distinct antibiotic (`V` = vancomycin, `E` = erythromycin, `N/G` = neomycin/gentamycin, and `A` = ampicillin).
Samples were collected for FMT after 2weeks of treatment. Samples sent for analysis are from ASO recipient animals treated with the microbiomes (we only have samples collected from the ASO recipients since we are interested in what actually colonized the recipients instead of what the antibiotic killed in the donors).
Only the microbiome from gentamycin/neomycin(in some behavior tests) or vancomycin-treated donors (in all behavior tests) depleted the beneficial effects of the FMT. Vancomycin-treated donors had the most profound effect. Ampicillin and Erythromycin-treated-donors microbiome did not interfere with the beneficial effects of the FMT.

